# ELK-STACK
Configuration of an ELK stack server to monitor/manage a cloud system.

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

!ELK-STACK\Diagrams\ELK_diagram.png 

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the ansible file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

  - ELK-STACK\Ansible

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topologu
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly available, in addition to restricting attacks to the network.
- This allows services to continue even if on server is down or needs to be updated. The advantage of the jumpbox is that it alone can directly ssh into the virtual network.

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the logs and system traffic.
- filebeat collects data about the file system.
- metricbeat collects machine metrics such as uptime.

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.


| name       | function   | IP Address                              | Operating System |
|------------|------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------|
| Jump-Box   | Gateway    | Public: 20.187.71.27 private: 10.0.1.4  | Linux            |
| Web1       | Server     | Public: N/A Private: 10.0.0.4           | Linux            |
| Web2       | Server     | Public: N/A Private: 10.0.0.5           | Linux            |
| web3       | Server     | Public: N/A Private: 10.0.1.5           | Linux            |
| Elk-server | Monitoring | Public: 20.187.71.27 Private: 10.1.0.4  | Linux            |

### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the Jump-Box machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:

- 73.218.38.243

Machines within the network can only be accessed by Jump-Box-Provisioner.

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| name       | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Address |
|------------|---------------------|--------------------|
| Jump-Box   | Yes                 | 73.218.38.243      |
| Web1       | No                  | 10.0.1.4           |
| Web2       | No                  | 10.0.1.4           |
| web3       | No                  | 10.0.1.4           |
| Elk-server | No                  | 10.0.1.4           |

### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...
- Allows for the deployment of multiple apps. It is simple to learn and is not dependent n any agents resulting in reduction in maintenance overheads and performance degradation. 

The playbook implements the following tasks:
- install docker.io
- install python3-pip
- install docker via pip
- increase virtual memory
- download and launsh docker elk container

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

!ELK-STACK\Diagrams\docker_ps.png

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
- 10.0.0.4
- 10.0.0.5
- 10.0.1.5

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
- filebeat
- metricbeat

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
- filebeat most commonly used member of the ELK stack. It is generally used to collect log files usually those generated by Apache, Microsoft Azure, Nginx etc.
- metricbeat is a shipper downloaded onto the servers to collect metrics from the operating system. System level monitoring through elasticsearch.

### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the playbook.yml file to ansible directory.
- Update the /etc/ansible/hosts file to include webservers and elk
- Run the playbook, and navigate to Kibana to check that the installation worked as expected.

- filebeat-playbook.yml. /etc/ansible/roles
- You update the hosts file to make ansible run the playbook on a specific machine. You specify which machine elk vs filebeat is installed on by changing the hosts name in the playbook to either webservers/elk. and adding specifying a webserver and an elk groupd under the hosts file.
- ansible-playbook filebeat-playbook.yml and ansible-playbook metricbeat-playbook.yml
